---
permalink: /updates/1.12.0-release/
title: NYS Design System Release 1.12.0 “Skylight”
author: Eric Steinborn
description: |
     This release completely revamped the tooltip component to be more accessible and easier to use. The old tooltip wrapper has been removed from the package. We also introduced new responsive variants for our popular utility classes.
ogimage: /assets/i/2025/release-1.12.0.png
tags: release, custom element manifest, figma
date: 2025-12-11
---

<nys-alert type="info" heading="Note regarding the next release" text="Our next release will skip the week of Christmas, and will instead release the week after, on New Years Eve!"></nys-alert>


## Why “Skylight?”

When we name our releases, we pick from a list of Adirondack high peaks.  We held a vote in our teams channel and after 34 total responses, our winner is **Skylight** with 17 votes! Skylight is the fourth-highest peak in New York, with an elevation of 4,924 feet (1,501 m)! 

[Learn more about Mount Skylight.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mount_Skylight)



## What happened to Tooltip?
<nys-alert type="warning" heading="Note" text="The old tooltip wrapper has been removed from the package."></nys-alert>

We realized soon after releasing the `<nys-tooltip>` component that is was too limited in scope. It was only able to be wrapped around buttons and icons. So we took a look at other design systems and decided to implement tooltip as a stand-alone component. Tooltip now supports the following elements via the `for` attribute:

  - `<nys-button>`
  - `<nys-icon>`
  - `<nys-textinput>` (appears as a hint icon)
  - `<nys-textarea>` (appears as a hint icon)
  - `<nys-select>` (appears as a hint icon)
  - `<nys-checkboxgroup>` (appears as a hint icon)
  - `<nys-checkbox>` (appears as a hint icon)
  - `<nys-radiogroup>` (appears as a hint icon)
  - `<nys-fileinput>` (appears as a hint icon)

### Tooltip Demo
  {% set preview %}
<nys-tooltip for="my-textinput" text="I am a tooltip."></nys-tooltip>
<nys-textinput id="my-textinput" name='fullName' label="Full name" description="Enter your full legal name" width="md"></nys-textinput>
  {% endset %}
  {% set code = preview%}
  {% set showTip = false %}
  {% set backgroundSolid = true %}
  {% include "partials/code-preview.njk" %}

The Figma Library for the New York State Design System is now available in the Figma Community for non-NYS Employees. If you are an NYS Employee, contractor, or vendor of NYS please use the actual Figma library.

The Community library contains all of the components in the system, the project template, and you can even configure a custom theme so local governments within New York State can adopt the design system. Use the [NYS Design System Figma file today](https://www.figma.com/community/file/1574803287825265318).

[Leo Vogel](https://github.com/leo-vogel) and [Kristin Sorrentino](https://github.com/ksorrentino) published the Figma file.

## Sass under the hood
Our initial setup for the NYS Design System included raw CSS file imports through JavaScript. We have run out of runway with vanilla CSS and have made the conversion to Sass for all style files. Sass gives us more flexibility in generating CSS programatically. All components have been converted to use Sass, and an added benefit, the file size for the package was reduced by 40KB just by including minified CSS instead of expanded. Stay tuned for an extensive utility class expansion coming soon!

[Eric Steinborn](https://github.com/esteinborn) ended up getting real sassy.

## VSCode autocomplete support

To add NYS Design System vscode autocompletion to your editor:

Copy the `.vscode/` folder into the root of your project. You can find it in `/node_modules/@nysds/components/.vscode`

Edit the following file (create it if it doesn't exist)

`./vscode/settings.json`

Add the following lines and save the file:

```json
"html.customData": [".vscode/vscode.html-custom-data.json"],
"css.customData": [".vscode/vscode.css-custom-data.json"]
```

If you have existing settings, add the custom data in addition to the files already listed.

## Notable bug fixes

 - Fix: Pagination edge case bug by @emilygorelik
 - Fix: select initial validation by @emilygorelik
 - Fix: unavheader aria role by @emilygorelik
 - Fix: Typography token weights by @emilygorelik

[Emily Gorelik](https://github.com/emilygorelik) is a verified exterminator.

## New icons

<nys-icon name="expand_all" size="4xl"></nys-icon> `expand_all`

<nys-icon name="height" size="4xl"></nys-icon> `height`

<nys-icon name="straight" size="4xl"></nys-icon> `straight`

[Robert Chen](https://github.com/novacat35) sees icons in his sleep.

## 🚨 Breaking changes
- None

## ⚠️ Known issues
 - None

If you notice any issues, please add them to [our GitHub Issue Tracker](https://github.com/ITS-HCD/nysds/issues)

### That’s it!

#### For full component updates, bug fixes, and the detailed changelog:  
[See the full developer release notes for v.1.11.3 →](https://github.com/ITS-HCD/nysds/releases/tag/v1.11.3)
